# dnd-tools

This is a set of scripts for creating nice-looking spell cards, monster cards, and/or item cards for D&D 5E using LuaLaTeX. 

Much of the original data comes from [Open5E via GitHub](https://github.com/eepMoody/open5e-api), and I use their basic format for JSON files, but most of the entries (particularly spell card descriptions) have been modified to make the formatting TeX-friendly. I have also added material from supplemental sources as needed. 

## Spell Cards

The spell cards are inspired by several DIY designs across the internet---but particularly [these](https://hardcodex.ru/)---with my own modifications. They were designed to be generated as 2.5x3.5in cards (about the size of a standard playing card), but you can change the card dimensions with the `geometry` command at the top of the .tex file. 

### Build

Spell card scripts live in the `spell-card-generator` directory. To generate a card set, run the `spell-cards.tex` file through LuaLaTeX, either from the command line or through your preferred IDE. You may need to build twice to get the intended spacing between and inside info boxes.

The full list of spells, in JSON format, is in `spells.json`. To include additional spells, add them to `spells.json` in the prescribed format. To point the script to a different file, modify line 14 of `spell-cards.tex` with the appropriate file path.

Card sets are generated by class. To build a particular set of cards, modify the `\class{}` command at line 10 of `spell-cards.tex` with your desired class. For example: `\class{Paladin}` will generate spells cards for all the spells available to paladins. Alternatively, use `\class{All}` to generate spell cards for all the spells listed in `spells.json`; each card will note all the classes by which each spell can be used. You can filter by source (PHB, TCoE, etc.), but not if you use `\class{All}`. 

### Colors
Each class's cards have a different colored background. To customize, modify the appropriate line under the "colors" heading near the beginning of `spell-cards.sty`. I advise relatively dark colors so that the white text is easy to read.

### Auxiliary stat blocks
Summoning-type spell cards automatically generate stat blocks for their associated creatures (or monsters or constructs or what have you). These are based directly on the monster card generator (see below), and I find it handy to print them back to back with their associated spell cards. Currently, there isn't a way to turn this feature off, but for now, you can simply not print those pages of the generated PDF.

## Monster Cards

Monster cards are my own design, but made to look and function similarly to the 5e stat blocks. They were designed to be generated as 3x5in cards (index card size), but you can change the card dimensions with the `geometry` command at the top of the .tex file.

### Build
The `\makeMonsterCards{}` command takes one argument: a JSON file name, including the extension. Example: `\makeMonsterCards{monsters.json}`. The command will build stat blocks for all the monsters listed in the file. Currently, there are no filters for these. 

These cards make use of the Mrs Eaves font for titles and headings. If you don't have access to it, you can specify a different font in the `\setsansfont` command near the top of the `dnd-tools.cls` file. If you do have access to Mrs Eaves, you may need to alter or remove the `MrsEaves.fontspec` file to meet your needs.

### Options
There are two optional keys that can be added to any monster entry in the JSON file to tweak the formatting of the cards:

- `"tex_multiline": "true"` splits the AC/HP/Speed line underneath the title into two lines. Useful if the info is cramped onto one line or spills over undesirably.
- `"tex_twosided": "actions"` splits the stat block into two cards such that the second card (the backside, if you print them double-sided) begins with the Actions heading. This is most useful for monsters with a lot of abilities, but can be used for any monster.


## Item Cards

In progress

## TO DO

### General

- Alter JSON format and card generation scripts so that JSON entries don't require TeX formatting commands inside them.

### Spell cards
- (MAYBE) Generate card sets based on various filters (level, school, etc.) in addition to character class.
- (QOL) Truncate description and refer to page number on cards with so much text that the font size is too small to read comfortably.
- (QOL) Add option to turn off generation of stat blocks associated with certain spell cards.
### Monster cards
- (MAYBE) Add additional `tex_twosided` options for card splits at other points. 
- Add commas to saving throws and skills lists.
- Consider different layout for AC/HP/Speed line.
- (MAYBE) Add filtering options.
- (MAYBE) Split shapechanger cards into front/back based on polymorph forms.
- (QOL)(MAYBE) Make templated list of common abilities and actions (e.g. Spider Climb, Multiattack, Slam, Claws).
- (QOL)(MAYBE) Put passive perception somewhere that's easier to see at a glance.

## Acronyms

- ERLW = Eberron: Rising From The Last War
- DMG = Dungeon Master's Guide
- FToD = Fizban's Treasury of Dragons
- GGtR = Guildmaster's Guide to Ravnica
- MM = Monster Manual
- MPMoM = Mordenkainen Presents: Monsters of the Multiverse
- MToF = Mordenkainen's Tomb of Foes
- PHB = Player's Handbook
- SCoC = Strixhaven: A Curriculum of Chaos
- TCoE = Tasha's Cauldron of Everything
- VGtM = Volo's Guide to Monsters
- XGtE = Xanathar's Guide to Everything